[//]: # ( <p><iframe src="https://douglasurner.github.io/GDP2/units/0/assignments/U0.3-pong-in-game-lab/U0.3b-planning-pong" width="100%" height="666px"></iframe></p> )

## Planning Pong

[slides]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hmsy4eocIlJcjUqrBW2UWpzgB3Io8bXNra_oFNBl5i0/edit?usp=sharing
[template]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EvwWimuX-K8u_-aF-MDF-HBQqlr51Z58QKYa0FU6kSg/edit?usp=sharing
[pigl-3]: https://canvas.instructure.com/courses/1405044/assignments/10645732

Once you have your partner selected, take some time to plan out how you will approach the game. Start by taking some individual time to sketch out ideas in your notes the use the [Pong Planning Template][template] to record your ideas.

[Slides: Planning Pong][slides] - right-click and choose **Open link in a new tab** to view.

### Learning Targets:

* I can identify the elements of an electonic game.
* I can describe the interactions between the elements.

## Instructions

1. Make an editable copy of the [Planning Pong Template][template].
1. Looking at your notes and confering with your partner, fill in as much of it as you can. Use the sections to organize your ideas and to plan your work.
   - **Milestones:** Use this section to record your plan for implementing the game. It is at the top because you should be referring to it as you work. It may be easier to complete this section after you have done the "lower level" planning.
   - **Sprites:** List the visual elements of the game here. Decide on where they will be placed at the start of the game and whether or not they will be visible. Make notes about how they will interact with other sprites and how the player controlled sprites will be moved.
   - **Non-Sprite Variables:** Think about what information you will need to keep track of in the game. Make a list here, you may want to start with the second column.
   - **Constants:** What numbers in the game don't change? Use constants to keep track of them (and explain what they mean). Constants are especially useful when a number is used in more than one place.
   - **Functions:** If your sprites are the "nouns" in the game then your functions are the "verbs." Use functions to make the game easier to read and to encapsulate the logic of sprite interactions.
   - You may find that there are parts that you aren't sure how to answer completely at this stage. That is fairly common, but you should have *some* ideas in each section.
   - At this point you and your partner may not see eye-to-eye on how (or maybe what) to implement the game.
1. Once you have completed the [template][], move on to the next step [Coding Pong][pigl-3]

## Submission

Each member of the team should submit PDF of their planning document through Canvas **do not** submit by sharing the document. Make sure to move the bookmark in your planning notes.
